Pagelock: 

----

Title: Rona Pondick

----

First-name: Rona

----

Last-name: Pondick

----

Featured-image: pondick_cover-detail.jpg

----

Text: 

Title: I want

Medium: Lithograph on Whatman white-wove

Size: Book Edition, 11 3/8 x 15 1/8 in. (closed with covers); Print Edition, Prints I-IV 13 x 31 3/4 in., Print V & Cover 14 3/4 x 34 5/8 in.

Edition: Book Edition, Hard cover cloth bound book holding four double page spread accordian fold sheets; Edition of 25, 7 Artist's proofs, 2 Printer's Proofs, 1 I.C.E. Impression. Print Edition, 5 images, edition of 10 Roman Numerals.

Release: November 1996

Price: ICE Publication, SOLD OUT. Singles, $800.00. Hard Cover Publication, $2,500.00.

Rona Pondick, I want, 1996, a limited edition artist's book consisting of artist designed covers and four double page accordian fold sheets published by I.C. Editions, a division of Susan Inglett Gallery. The edition was printed in lithography by Derriere L'Etoile Studios, NYC using 18 aluminum plates and nine colors. The edition numbers 25 with 7 Artist's Proofs. Each double page spread measures 11" by 29 3/8". Each double page spread will also be offered as a single print in an edition of ten.

Pondick has selected the book format as the perfect vehicle for her explorations of desire. Here repetition provides not only a formal structure for the work, as exhibited in the sculpture, but a metaphorical one. The mantra-like repetition of the text, I want, enveloped by the wrappers of the book becomes the physical embodiment of secret or hidden desires.

I want can be found in the collections of the Allen Art Museum, Oberlin; Brooklyn Museum of Art; the Fogg Art Museum, Cambridge; High Museum of Art, Atlanta; Morgan Library, NYC; New York Public Library, NYC; and the Progressive Corporation, Mayfield Village.

Rona Pondick was born in Brooklyn, New York 1952 receiving her B.F.A. from Queens College in 1974 and M.F.A. from Yale University School of Art in 1977. Her work has been exhibited extensively in both America and Europe with work included in the collections of the Whitney Museum, NYC; the Israel Museum, Jerusalem; the Brooklyn Museum; the Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles; and the High Museum, Atlanta. The artist is represented by the Sonnabend Gallery, NYC.